{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18940\viewh13380\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
README FILE
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 This repository contains the different script files of the STONES (Socio-Technical Outlook of National Energy System) model\'92s version used for the article \'91Multi-country evidence on societal factors to include in energy transition modeling\'92. Please cite the original article if you want to use the model or some parts of the code. If any questions, please contact Dr Vivien Fisch-Romito (vivien.fisch-romito@unil.ch)\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'a0\

\f0\b Input Data 
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Most of the historical data about costs, generation and capacity dynamics come from the same data package (LIEN ZENODO). Other input data (fossil fuel capacity vintage; technical potential of pumped hydro storage; public opinion on power technologies, weighted average costs of capital for power technologies; governance) come from other sources described in the article and supplementary material. If any questions related to the data, please contact the first author of the article.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'a0\
\'a0\

\f0\b Description of the STONES model files
\f1\b0 \
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 -main.py: \'a0python script \'a0to launch in parallel different hindcasting runs. This script imports the following modules while it is running.\
-filepath.py: python script to create folder paths to store the output files\
-data_proc.py: python script to format the input data\
-load_curve.py: python script for the electricity demand curve module. The electricity demand curve module allows to obtain hourly electricity demand values for the observed year y to feed the dispatch module, and for the year y+5 to feed. \
-capacity_dynamic.py: python script for the capacity expansion module. It used as inputs the load duration curves (hourly electricity demand profiles) for the year observed (or for the closest available one if not available).\
-dispatch: python script for the dispatch module. It determines the system-wide cost-optimal dispatch by minimizing the sum of variable costs for all technologies while satisfying hourly electricity demand constraints.\
-study_frame.xls: giving the different combinations of societal factors included in the model for each run.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'a0\
\'a0\

\f0\b Execution
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b \'a0
\f1\b0 \
To run the model, you need to run in a 
\f2\i command
\f1\i0 -line window the python script main.py. In this file you can define:\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 -the countries you want to analyze. To do it you can modify the following line in the file: \
Countries= ['AUT', 'BEL', 'BGR', 'CHE', 'CYP', 'CZE', 'DEU', 'DNK', 'ESP', 'EST', 'FIN', 'FRA', 'GBR', 'GRC', 'HUN', 'HRV', 'IRL', 'ISL', 'ITA', 'LTU', 'LUX', 'LVA', 'MLT', 'NLD', 'NOR', 'POL', 'PRT', 'ROU', 'SVK', 'SVN', 'SWE']\
-the combinations of societal factors you want to activate in the model, defined with the parameter s, in the following line: \
for s in range (0,64). \
Each value of this parameter corresponds to a combination of societal factors described in each line of the study_frame.xlsx file.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \'a0
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b \'a0
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b \'a0
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b \'a0
\f1\b0 \
}